.TH "GETQUOTES" "1" "13 April 2024" "0.4.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
getquotes \- fetch and display inspirational quotes from Wikiquote
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getquotes
[.I OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
getquotes is a command-line tool written in Rust that fetches and displays inspirational quotes from Wikiquote. It allows users to fetch quotes from specific authors, enable colorful output, and use cached quotes in offline mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help information.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-authors\fR \fIAUTHORS\fR
Fetch quotes from specified authors (comma-separated list).
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-rainbow\-mode\fR
Enable rainbow mode for colorful display.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-offline\fR
Use cached quotes when offline.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-init\-cache\fR
Initialize the quote cache for offline mode.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR \fIFILE\fR
Use a custom TOML configuration file instead of the default one. It will create it at the specified path if it doesn't exist.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-completion\fR \fISHELL\fR
Generate shell completion script for the specified shell. Supported shells: bash, zsh, fish, powershell, elvish
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-migrate\-config\fR
Migrate JSON config to TOML format (will be removed in next major release)
.SH CONFIGURATION
GetQuotes can be configured using a TOML configuration file. Example configuration:
.nf
# List of authors to fetch quotes from
authors = [
    "Albert Einstein",
    "Isaac Newton"
]

# Theme color in hex format
theme_color = "#FF5733"

# Maximum number of attempts to fetch a quote
max_tries = 50

# Log file path
log_file = "custom_getquotes.log"

# Enable rainbow mode for random colors
rainbow_mode = false
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
getquotes
getquotes \-\-authors "Albert Einstein,Mahatma Gandhi"
getquotes \-\-rainbow\-mode
getquotes \-\-offline
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
.SH AUTHORS
MuntasirSZN <muntasir.joypurhat@gmail.com>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs on the GitHub Issues Page: https://github.com/MuntasirSZN/getquotes/issues
